A very long time ago, the ancient Persian Sassanid empire and the Roman Empire
were at odds and the would get into silly little fights and such
In the chapter of Ferdowsi’s Shahnameh, “Anushrivan receives Caesar’s locked chest and other presents”
The Roman Emperor, Caesar, sends an envoy to Persia carrying a parcel of gifts in
an attempt to keep the peace. The envoys approach the Shah, and they recite the
letter sent from the Emperor. He is requesting that it would be kind that the
Shah would not invade the Roman Empire, or in other words
“Shah must not ask tribute at our hands, Nor send an army to invade our realm􏰀.”
Also, to incentivize the Shah that another war is not a good idea, here, have some presents.
The Shah, the king of kings, wearing robes in the important Islamic colours of blue
and gold sitting there high and mighty with his fancy Hershey-kiss shaped crown with that cool little
plume just to show how, super-duper important he is, is enamoured by the envoy’s reception.
However, he is also puzzled by it, and summons many advisors to observe and study
the locked boxes. From here on out, I will call them party boxes because of
all the polka dots and cool patterns. In the end, the advisors have difficulty interpreting
interpreting and opening the boxes. The envoys say that they want someone specifically to open the boxes.
The envoys suggest that they would like the Shah’s wise councillor, the old and almost
blind Buzurghimir, to open these party boxes and to state the contents inside them.
Anushrivan, as the nice guy that he is, pulls him out of prison to do this task
Now, for whatever reason, the envoys are now comfortable opening the party boxes.
And, they feel that he is more qualified to do it compared to the other councillors.
It doesn’t seem like a very special job to me, but, as we can see right here,
he is obviously thinking really hard about it. He gets credit for that I guess.
In the end, the envoys now feel like opening the party boxes, and Buzurghimir states what's in them.
The contents are not shown in this illustration, but we will use our imagination and
pretend they are actually there. Each party box contains a pearl. The red ones contain
pearls pierced with an iron rod, and the special blue super fun party box in the middle, contains
a pure pearl that is not pierced. The Shah, feeling guilty about neglecting Buzurghimir
(I… guess that’s fair?) is thrilled with the presents. He showers Buzurghimir with treasure for
his work, and we conclude with the importance of being a good and responsible king
that being Anushrivan. Buzurghimir, a wise advisor, must bear the obligations with handling the King’s
treasure and to advise the Shah in his ruling, which is a formidable task that requires serious responsibilities
The End!